President Trump
is a threat to democracy,
but as Republicans
in Wisconsin and Michigan
have made clear this week,
he's not alone.
For more on this,
it's time for "A Closer Look."
[ Cheers and applause ]
We know Trump thinks
he's above the law.
That much is clear
in the Russia investigation.
Trump keeps interfering
in that investigation
by dangling the possibility
of pardons for his aides
or praising associates
who refuse to cooperate
like his ex-campaign chairman
Paul Manafort
or his former adviser
Roger Stone.
-"I feel very badly
for Paul Manafort
and his wonderful family.
Justice took
a 12-year-old tax case
and, among other things, applied
tremendous pressure on him.
And unlike Michael Cohen,
he refused to break
and make up stories
in order to get a deal.
Such respect for a brave man."
-"I will never testify
against Trump."
This statement was recently made
by Roger Stone,
essentially stating
that he will not be forced
by a rogue and out-of-control
prosecutor
to make up lies and stories
about President Trump.
"Nice to know that some people
still have guts!"
-Well, he is right
about Stone's guts.
This is a real photo
of his actual outfit
from the inauguration.
It takes real guts
to go out in public
dressed like a coke dealer
from a Charles Dickens novel.
I mean, look at him.
He looks like he's about to
carjack Chitty Chitty Bang Bang.
And for months,
Trump has been openly
floating the possibility
of pardoning Manafort,
even as Special Counsel
Robert Mueller
tries to get Manafort to
cooperate in the investigation.
Trump even praised Manafort
publicly
in an interview on Fox News
and complained that Mueller
was trying to get him and
other Trump associates to flip.
-This whole thing about
flipping, they call it --
I know all about flipping.
For 30, 40 years,
I've been watching flippers.
They flip on whoever
the next-highest one is.
It's called flipping, and
it almost ought to be illegal.
-You know...
Trump may say
he's against flipping,
but if he was ever arrested,
he would flip more than a dad
working the grill at a cookout.
Here is our scientific
computer simulation
of how Donald Trump would react
if he was indicted.
"It was Don Jr., it was Eric,
it was Ivanka,
it was Melania, it was Tiffany!
Take Tiffany! You don't want me!
You want Tiffany!"
[ Cheers and applause ]
And Trump did it again last week
in an interview
with the "New York Post"
where he confirmed again
that he's considering
pardoning Manafort.
-During an Oval Office
interview,
President Trump told
the "New York Post"
he has not ruled out a pardon
for former campaign chairman
Paul Manafort.
"It was never discussed, but I
wouldn't take it off the table.
Why would I take it off the
table?" The President said.
-Here's my question.
Why are you doing interviews
with the "New York Post"?
Trump so desperately wishes
he was the mayor of New York
and not the president.
Then all he'd have to do
is talk to the "Post,"
show up to ribbon cuttings,
and have sandwiches
named after him at delis.
"Make sure you order
the Donald Trump.
It's a turkey sandwich,
but the turkey is ham
because I'm a liar."
[ Laughter ]
[ Applause ]
Trump was already facing
possible obstruction of justice
charges before,
but his comments praising
Manafort and Stone
and dangling the possibility of
a pardon raised a new question.
Is he also guilty
of witness tampering?
That's the opinion
of at least one
prominent Republican lawyer,
George Conway --
the husband of
Kellyanne Conway --
who's been an outspoken critic
of Trump.
George Conway retweeted Trump's
tweet about Roger Stone
and added this --
"File under '18 USC
subsections 1503, 1512.'"
Which are the statutes
of witness tampering
and obstruction of justice.
The best part of that move
is that by tweeting out
the actual laws,
he made sure Trump will have
no idea what he's talking about.
"18 USC 503.
What language is this?
You know what? I'm just gonna
quick 'translate tweet.'"
[ Mouse clicks ]
[ Laughter ]
[ Applause ]
So...
Trump has been dangling
the prospect of a pardon
and hoping Manafort and Stone
will refuse to cooperate
with Mueller.
If you're Mueller, the question
is, how do you respond to that?
And we found out on Tuesday
when he filed a sentencing memo
for ex-national security adviser
Michael Flynn
and recommended
that Flynn get no jail time
because he's cooperated
with multiple investigations.
And yet,
Trump's lawyer Rudy Giuliani
tried to argue that that was
actually good news for Trump,
although I really can't follow
his logic or his syntax.
Here's a text message
that Rudy Giuliani,
the President's lawyer,
sent to a political reporter
after the Flynn news broke.
"Wow. Big crime
for a special whatever.
Maybe a group of angry, bitter
Hillary supporters
who are justifying themselves
by the goal justifies the means.
Over-the-top
unethical behavior."
What?!
Does Giuliani's iPhone
have auto-incorrect?
I have no idea what that means.
It's like when your grandpa uses
the voice-to-text feature
while he's driving.
"Wow. Big crime
for special whatever.
Watch where you're going,
you idiot.
Oh, that was my exit."
[ Laughter ]
Of course,
Rudy isn't just bad with phones.
He's also terrible at Twitter.
Last week, he tweeted,
"Mueller filed an indictment
just as the President left
for G-20.In July
he indicted the Russians,
who will never come here,
just before he left
for Helsinki."
But because Giuliani
forgot to put a space
between the period and "in,"
he accidentally created a link.
So someone bought
that link for $5,
and now when you click on it,
you get this message.
[ Laughter ]
[ Cheers and applause ]
Ya burnt.
So basically, ya burnt.
In reality, we burnt
because the same grandpa vampire
who wrote that tweet was named
cyber security adviser
by Trump in 2017,
which is like putting
the Hamburglar in
charge of security
at the ground-beef factory.
So the story that's
unfolding here is simple.
Trump broke election laws,
lied about it,
and then tried to obstruct the
investigation with those lies.
He's a threat to democracy
and the rule of law.
But he's not alone,
as we've seen this week
in states like
Wisconsin and Michigan.
After the GOP lost elections
in those states,
Republicans in Wisconsin
and Michigan responded
with pushes to limit the power
of Democrats
who won those offices.
The GOP's power grab
in Wisconsin is so shameless
that hundreds of protesters
have streamed into the capitol
to vent their anger, and
they just happened to be there
on the same day
that the outgoing
Republican governor,
Scott Walker,
was hosting the annual
tree-lighting ceremony,
which produced
this very odd scene.
-Protesters swarm the capitol
for the second day straight.
-The governor of the state
of Wisconsin, Scott Walker.
[ Mixed applause and boos ]
-Merry Christmas.
-Demonstrators booed
Governor Walker
at a Christmas
tree-lighting ceremony.
-It's so weird to watch
someone say "Merry Christmas"
to a bunch of people booing him.
He's like a dad who got his kids
a graphing calculator
when what they really wanted
was an Xbox.
"Hey, kids, let's do some math.
You want to show me
what you're working on?"
[ Laughter ]
Republicans are trying to get
away with this as we speak,
but protesters have
courageously challenged them
in public hearings.
Here's one Wisconsin resident
who showed up
to a public hearing
and stood up to Republicans
while also trying
to maintain
her Wisconsin politeness.
-Greetings. My name is Jan...
And I'm speaking mainly
to the Republicans here
because I believe there is
something you don't understand,
and that is that you lost.
You lost! You lost!
The problem is
you can't let go of power.
And you're stealing!
I've looked at this panel
for six hours.
You couldn't look at us.
You don't trust us.
You think you're better.
You think
you're more intelligent.
Well, you're not. You're not
letting the voters choose.
Look at me!
-Oh, you done it now!
Jan is angry!
[ Laughter ]
In Wisconsin...
[ Cheers and applause ]
And that's a big deal
because in Wisconsin
the highest threat level
is Angry Jan!
[ Laughter ]
Jan even put on
her yellin' turtleneck.
Republicans in Michigan
are also trying
to preemptively take power away
from the incoming governor
and the incoming
attorney general, Dana Nessel,
and if you're wondering if
Nessel is the kind of attorney
who's going to sit quietly
for that sort of thing,
allow me to direct you
to this very real campaign ad
she aired last year.
-If the last few weeks
has taught us anything,
it's that we need more women
in positions of power, not less.
So when you're choosing
Michigan's
next attorney general,
ask yourself this.
Who can you trust most
not to show you their penis
in a professional setting?
Is it the candidate
who doesn't have a penis?
I'd say so.
[ Cheers and applause ]
And she was right,
but unfortunately,
even if Republicans
don't take out their penises,
they can still act
like a bunch of dicks.
You might be thinking
to yourself,
hey, Republicans won the state
legislature fair and square,
so they get to pass the laws
if they want.
but Republicans actually won the
state legislature in Wisconsin
despite getting fewer votes
because gerrymandering
in Wisconsin is insane.
-Wisconsin Democrats
won a majority of votes
for the state assembly,
state legislature.
They won by a margin
of 8 points.
That's where Wisconsin Democrats
hit a snag.
Because of the way
Republicans in Wisconsin
have gerrymandered the districts
in the state,
even though the Democrats got
more votes in the assembly --
they got a ton more.
They won by 8 points in terms
of votes for assembly seats,
but still, Republicans won
most of the seats.
-Republicans won 45% of the vote
and 64% of the seats.
And look,
I'm not saying Dana Nessel
is right about Republicans
and penises,
but some of those districts
look very strange.
[ Laughter ]
Trump might be
the most prominent example
of the GOP's lawlessness,
but he's not alone.
We have a president
who thinks he's above the law
and Republicans who think
they're above elections.
A democracy can't function
if you change the rules
after the game just because --
-You lost! You lost! You lost!
-You're a hero, Jan!
This has been "A Closer Look."